---
description: "EN-UM-AWBusiness_21"
---


# Tutorial: Purchase Orders

---
## P.O. items in the order

### Objectives
- Entering P.O. items and allocating codes
- Changing the supplier of an order item
- Changing the supplier for the entire order
- Change ordered item

### Benefits
- Order items can be turned into purchase orders without the need to enter the items again in a purchase order.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **P.O. item** | P.O. items from orders create a separate P.O. per standard supplier. |
| **Purchase code** | The following procurement types are called purchase codes: <ul><li>P.O.</li><li>P.O. (complete)</li></ul> |
| **P.O. (complete)** | This code is used for products with a bill of materials, which are to be ordered as a whole, e.g. an entire door including the fittings. |
| **P.O.** | This code is used for products for which individual elements are to be ordered, e.g. only the fittings. |
| **Default settings** | **Master data:** <ul><li>Supplier data (market partners)</li><li>Supplier file</li></ul> **Company data:** <ul><li>Documents tab</li><li>Parameters tab</li><li>Stock/PP/EDI tab</li></ul> |

## Customer order

Customer orders can include items that have to be ordered for different reasons, e.g. because the product is not kept on stock or because production bottlenecks put the delivery date at risk, so that the entire item has to be ordered. Therefore, basically any item of an order can be ordered.

Purchase orders for order items can be issued from the orders. For this purpose, at least one BOM element or the whole item must be marked as a P.O.

Purchase orders are not automatically transferred to Purchasing. You can define that a message is issued upon closing item entry should an order include purchase articles.

**Fig. D-21: Purchase code for BOM element**
- **A:** A BOM component shall be ordered
- **B:** Procurement type of the component changed in the purchase order

A new document is generated for the P.O. items in an order: a purchase order. This document is generated by transferring the order to Purchasing. The P.O. transfer is described in a separate unit.
⇨ "P.O. transfer" on page D-1881

If an order includes several purchase items, the system creates as many purchase orders as different standard suppliers are found in the supplier file.

## Supplier for order item

Please make sure that you select the appropriate supplier for P.O. items in the order. You have the following options:

- **Document entry – Terms tab:**
  This setting applies for all items of the present order unless they are changed (afterwards) on item or BOM level.
  
- **Item entry - Supplement tab:**
  The setting applies only to the selected item.

- **Item entry - BOM tab:**
  The setting applies only to the selected BOM element.

- **P.O. transfer:**
  If no entries are made for the above options, the standard supplier will be used by default.
  The settings from the order and/or product master data can be changed in the order pool.
  The P.O. transfer is described in a separate unit.
  ⇨ "P.O. transfer" on page D-1881

## Changes in ordered items

Order items that have already been ordered or blocked from further processing. They can only be changed later in item entry of the order (or P.O.) if the lock is removed manually. Changes may involve, e.g. prices, quantities or sizes. The rate can be changed in spite of the lock.

The changes to purchase orders have to be saved in the reference orders. If you change the size or quantity of an ordered item, you can enter the changes in the original P.O. The P.O. must then be sent to the supplier again, informing him of the changes.

The changed order must then again be transferred to Purchasing by way of the order pool.

## Enter a P.O. item in the order

Elements or entire items can be entered in an item position from which a P.O has to be generated. To this end, the correct procurement type (purchase code) has to be assigned.

### How to enter an item for the P.O. in the order
1.  Enter the order header and go to the **Items** tab.
2.  Enter the product your customer requires.

**Fig. D-22: Purchase item in the order**
- **A:** Procurement type for the selected item
- **B:** Order item created

3.  Check the correct settings of the procurement type (A).
4.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the data.
5.  Enter another item which includes only one BOM element.
6.  Go to the **BOM** tab.
7.  Select the element (A) that is to be ordered.
8.  Choose the procurement type (C) and the supplier (B).
9.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the changes.

You can now enter more items or change the entered items.
If you want to order all P.O. items from the same supplier, select the new supplier in the order header in the **Terms** tab.
⇨ "How to change the supplier for all P.O. items" on page D-1877

10. Close item entry.

If no default supplier was specified for the P.O. items, the supplier has to be specified in the **P.O. transfer – Order pool** dialog.
⇨ "How to create a purchase order for a customer order" on page D-1889

**Fig. D-23: Procurement type for BOM element**
- **A:** BOM element to be ordered
- **B:** Supplier for the element
- **C:** Procurement type

## Change supplier in order

You can choose a different supplier for the purchase orders in the order header. This supplier will be used for all P.O. items of this order.

> **Change purchase code in the Number Manager**
> If you need to change the purchase code in several orders, you can collect these orders in a new Number Manager. You can use the menu **Functions > Change code** in this Number Manager to change the procurement type and the supplier for all documents in one step.

### How to change the supplier for all P.O. items
1.  Open the order with all purchase items.
2.  Go to the **Terms** tab.

**Fig. D-24: Order header - Terms tab**
- **A:** Supplier for all P.O. items

3.  Choose the desired supplier (A).
4.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the data.
    A question appears: Set purchase code for all items?
5.  Select:
    - **[Yes]:** The entire order is transferred to Purchasing to be ordered from the selected supplier.
    - **[No]:** Only the P.O. items are transferred to Purchasing.
6.  Close the order.

You can now transfer the P.O.s to Purchasing.
⇨ "How to create a purchase order for a customer order" on page D-1889

## Change ordered item

You can change an ordered item in the order afterwards and issue a new purchase order. Do not forget to tell your supplier which purchase order is the new one, and which of the previous purchase orders it replaces.

> **Change ordered item**
> You can change an ordered item as long as no supplier's order confirmation or receipt of goods has been entered, or a lock status has been reached.

### How to change an ordered item
1.  Open the document in which you want to change an ordered item, and go to item entry.
2.  Select the item you want to change.

**Fig. D-25: Procurement type of BOM element**
- **A:** Product structure locked
- **B:** Item locked, only price can be changed

The fields (A) for the ordered items are locked. The respective text is shown in the **Remark** column (B).

3.  Go to the menu **Functions > Group item > Change locked item**.
    The fields will be enabled.
4.  Enter your changes, e.g. the quantity.
5.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the changes.
    The changes are saved. You can enter more changes.
6.  Close item entry.
    The **P.O. transfer - Order pool** dialog appears; you can transfer the purchase orders to Purchasing.
    ⇨ "How to create a purchase order for a customer order" on page D-1889

**Fig. D-26: P.O. transfer - Order pool**

⇨ Sales, "P.O. transfer" on page C-1751

7.  Transfer the changed P.O. as described in **Transfer to Purchasing**.
    ⇨ "Transfer document to order pool" on page D-1889

> **Inform supplier**
> Do not forget to tell your supplier of the change if you have already forwarded the original P.O. to him.

## P.O. transfer

### Objectives
- Transferring an order with P.O. items to the order pool
- Checking P.O. items in the order pool
- Changing supplier and delivery dates
- Transferring P.O. items to Purchasing

### Benefits
- Order items can be passed directly on to Purchasing. The P.O. items do not have to be checked in the P.O. pool.
- Prices can be compared in the order pool in order to select the most favorable (or fastest) supplier.
- Dates, prices, and suppliers of purchase orders can be checked before the transfer is made.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **P.O. transfer** | The P.O. transfer creates purchase orders from the order items. The transfer of a purchase order must be triggered manually. Only order items with a purchase code will be transferred from the order pool to Purchasing. |
| **Order pool** | The order pool is filled by hand. It lists all documents from the selected Number Manager. |
| **P.O.s** | Purchase orders from different orders can be combined in a collective P.O. if the supplier and the delivery date are identical for these items. |
| **Supplier** | If several items with purchase codes were entered in an order, a separate purchase code will be issued for every supplier. |
| **Price comparison**| Before transferring the purchase order, you can compare the prices of suppliers who can provide the required product. For this purpose, the supplier file must be kept updated. |
| **Change of date**| If the delivery date at the customer is changed in the order pool, this change will be applied to the reference order as well. |
| **Send P.O.** | Purchase orders created by means of the order pool have to be printed and sent to the supplier via the Form/label printing dialog. |
| **Default settings**| **P.O. transfer > Options menu:** <ul><li>**Order-related transfer:** Purchase orders are transferred by order. Collective P.O.s can be created if this option is disabled.</li><li>**P.O. number = order number:** This option is only available if the option Order-related transfer has been enabled. This setting may not be enabled if different suppliers are entered for an order.</li></ul> **Master data:** <ul><li>Number areas</li><li>Supplier file</li></ul> **Company data:** <ul><li>Production tab (profit center invoicing)</li><li>Stock/PP/EDI tab (include spacers in the P.O.)</li></ul> |

### Order pool
Purchase orders are automatically created from customer orders.

**Fig. D-27: P.O. items in the order pool**
- **A:** Order number
- **B:** Item number from the order
- **C:** (Standard) supplier
- **D:** Product description
- **E:** Issue P.O.
- **F:** Generate inquiry
- **G:** Document number after transfer
- **H:** Show BOM

The order items are transferred to Purchasing by way of an order pool. Order items without P.O. items will not be processed further. The document status tells the program which items can be transferred to purchasing.

Customer order check in the order pool only applies to products with the procurement type **P.O.** or **P.O. (complete)**.

**Fig. D-28: Process of the order check in the order pool**

Components with one of the two procurement types are searched for in the customer orders - first at the level of the main component and then at the BOM level. The products are distinguished by simple purchased elements and purchased elements for which all sub-products have to be ordered as well.

If a customer order contains several items to be ordered from different suppliers, a separate P.O. will be created for each supplier.

If a customer order states stock articles in a quantity which exceeds the current stock on hand, these stock articles have to be ordered by means of a (manual) stock P.O.

### Checks
You can activate various checks via the **Options** menu, e.g.:
- **Check delivery date:** The delivery date is checked automatically. The system will inform you if you have changed a delivery date which falls on a day that is not a route day.
- **Consider supplier's route:** If the delivery date for the P.O. is not a route day, a message to that effect will be issued. This requires that supplier's routes have been defined in the master data.
- **Determine lead days based on PGR combinations:** If lead days have been defined for PGR combinations, these shall be used to calculate the delivery date.
  ⇨ Master data, "Lead days" on page B-645
- **Product names as per the supplier file:** The names of the ordered products are adopted from the supplier file.
- **No saving of costs:** Costs are not written back to the purchase prices of the order.
- **Consider size surcharges:** Size surcharges shall be transferred with the P.O.

### P.O. transfer
You can select the mode prior to transferring the P.O. items.

**Fig. D-29: Order mode**

**Fig. D-30: Change supplier in order pool**

With the option **Direct order**, P.O.s are generated without transferring them to the order pool. In the order pool, the dates and the suppliers can be changed.

### Supplier selection and price comparison
If a date is at risk, you can choose other suppliers. These will be loaded from the supplier file. If prices are also defined by a supplier there, prices can be compared so that you can choose the most favorable supplier, irrespective of date problems.

**Fig. D-31: Change supplier in order pool**

### Delivery dates
To be able to calculate delivery dates, the delivery times of all suppliers must be kept in the supplier file. When customer orders are transferred, the delivery date is checked with the customer. The program also shows whether the delivery time defined for this supplier will allow him to supply the goods on time.

The supplier's delivery date in the order pool is determined by means of the shipping date minus the lead days defined for the corresponding product group.

Weekdays and the route will be taken into account. If no lead days were entered, the shipping date is adopted as the delivery date.

Delivery dates requested in the order that cannot be kept for the P.O. due to the delivery days defined in the supplier file are marked by a special color in the order pool.

The supplier and/or delivery date can be changed in the order pool in this case. The changes will be saved in the order.

### Generated purchase orders
Once the transfer is completed, a report shows the number of documents that could not be transferred (processed).

**Fig. D-32: Faulty documents**

These have to be checked, one by one, and corrected if necessary. The following errors are possible:
- No purchase code found.
- Order is still open.
- Status does not allow transfer.

From the order items with a purchase code, purchase orders were created which can be opened and checked in the P.O. document management. These purchase orders can be sent to the supplier in the usual way.

The status of all transferred items is changed. The status is also changed in the reference orders.

### P.O. numbers
Automatically created purchase orders usually get numbers from the corresponding number area. At the transfer you can also decide whether the order number shall be used as the P.O. number as well.

### Collective orders per supplier
Purchase orders from different orders placed with the same supplier are summed up in collective orders. The system will stick to the sequence in which the entries appear in the order pool. The order number must not be used as a P.O. number in this case however.

When you have selected all items to be ordered from the same supplier in the order pool, you can combine them in a collective P.O.

The following requirements must be met for this:
- Identical supplier
- Identical delivery date
- The code for collective orders has to be set in the supplier master data (Order tab).

The **Functions > Marking options** menu can be used to define the supplier for which a collective P.O. shall be issued.

**Fig. D-33: Marking options for collective orders**

With the marking options, all corresponding items in the order pool will be selected automatically. To generate the collective order, disable the menu **Options > Group transfer > Order-related transfer**.

### How to create a purchase order for a customer order
1.  Go to **Documents > Order > P.O. transfer**.

**Fig. D-34: Transfer orders from the Number Manager**
- **A:** Number Manager with orders for transfer
- **B:** Transfer mode
- **C:** Target Number Manager
- **D:** Target number area

2.  Select the mode(B):
    - **Fill pool:** Use this option to display the orders on the **Order pool** tab where they can be checked before the transfer and amended if necessary.
    - **Direct order:** Use this option to transfer the data immediately to the standard supplier. This option is useful if you do not want to check prices or delivery dates first.
    - **Direct inquiry:** Use this option to transfer the data immediately as an inquiry to the standard supplier.

In this example, the orders are first checked in the order pool.

3.  Select the Number Manager (A) that contains the orders with the P.O. items.
4.  Select the target Number Manager (C) to which the generated P.O.s shall be moved.
    You can enter a new name and thus create a new Number Manager. If you select another user, the Number Manager will be allocated to him/her.
5.  Choose a different target number area (D) if required.
6.  To move the orders to the order pool, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.

**Fig. D-35: Order items in the order pool**

The order pool is filled. The P.O. items are shown per order.

7.  Select the items to be transferred to Purchasing.
    Double-click on the corresponding line header.

**Fig. D-36: Transfer marked order items**

Only items marked with an X have been selected.

8.  To start the action, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The activated checks will be executed. Depending on the number of orders, this may take some time. Confirm the corresponding informative messages by selecting [Yes] or [No] to proceed with the checks. When all checks have been completed, the corresponding purchase orders will be created and thus transferred to Purchasing.
    The transferred items are removed from the order pool.
    The order status is raised. The order history shows the P.O. number as a reference.

**Fig. D-37: P.O. numbers after transfer**

When the items have been transferred, the P.O. number for the order is displayed.

You can open and edit the purchase orders in **Documents > P.O.** Print the new purchase order and send it to the supplier.

### Changing a P.O. in the order pool
If difficulties regarding a date are shown for an item, you can select another supplier from the order pool. You can also open the dialog to change the supplier without date difficulties to select a different supplier other than the standard supplier.

#### How to change the delivery date and the supplier
1.  Go to **Documents > Order > P.O. transfer**.
2.  Move the orders to the order pool.
    This procedure is described in the previous unit.
    ⇨ "Transfer document to order pool" on page D-1889
3.  Select the item for which you want to change the delivery date.
    Double-click on the corresponding line header.

**Fig. D-38: Item for the change of supplier is marked**

Only items marked with an X have been selected.

4.  Go to the menu **Functions > Change supplier/delivery dates**.
    You can now change the following information:
    - the supplier
    - the delivery date of the supplier
    - the date of delivery at the customer
5.  Click [OK] to accept the change.
    The **Change supplier and delivery dates** dialog closes. The purchase order pool shows the order item with the new date and/or supplier.
6.  To transfer the item to Purchasing, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The activated checks will be executed. Depending on the number of orders, this may take some time. Confirm the corresponding informative messages by selecting [Yes] or [No] to proceed with the checks. When all checks have been completed, the corresponding purchase orders will be created and thus transferred to Purchasing.
    The changed dates are saved in the order.
    When the items have been transferred, the P.O. number for the order is displayed.
    You can open and edit the generated purchase orders in **Documents > P.O.** Print the new purchase order and send it to the supplier.

### Compare prices in the order pool
If several suppliers have been entered for a product, you can compare prices in the order pool and select another supplier if required.

#### How to compare prices in the order pool
1.  Go to **Documents > Order > P.O. transfer**.
2.  Move the orders to the order pool.
    This procedure is described in the previous unit.
    ⇨ "Transfer document to order pool" on page D-1889
3.  Select the item for which you want to compare purchase prices.
    Double-click on the corresponding line header.

**Fig. D-39: Item for price comparison is marked**

Only items marked with an X have been selected.

4.  Go to the menu **Functions > Supplier prices**.

**Fig. D-40: Price comparison for item**
- **A:** !!! For all text colors: Delivery date is at risk
- **B:** Text color red: Standard supplier
- **C:** Text in green: most favorable supplier in terms of price
- **D:** Text in blue: Standard supplier is most favorable supplier in terms of price

5.  Tick the checkbox left from the supplier to whom the purchase order for this item is to be sent.
6.  Click [OK] to accept the change.
    The **Price comparison** dialog closes. The order pool shows the order item with the new supplier.
7.  Select the orders or order items you want to transfer to Purchasing.
    Double-click on the corresponding line header.

**Fig. D-41: Item with changed supplier**

Only items marked with an X have been selected.

8.  To start the transfer, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The activated checks will be executed. Depending on the number of orders, this may take some time. Confirm the corresponding informative messages by selecting [Yes] or [No] to proceed with the checks. When all checks have been completed, the corresponding purchase orders will be created and thus transferred to Purchasing.
    Transferred items are removed from the order pool.

**Fig. D-42: P.O. numbers after transfer**
- **A:** First P.O. number
- **B:** Second P.O. number

When the items have been transferred, the old and the new P.O. number for this order are shown.
You can open and edit the purchase orders in **Documents > P.O.** Print the new purchase order and send it to the supplier.
Do not forget to inform the former supplier of the change.

### Order and P.O. info
The reference documents for every order and every P.O. can be displayed in a list. This function is available for purchase orders (header data) in the menu **Function > Order/P.O. info**.

**Fig. D-43: Order and P.O. info – List of reference documents**

This dialog is described in the Sales section.
⇨ Sales, "Order/P.O. info" on page C-1670

## Manual purchase order

### Objectives
- Entering a purchase order manually.
- Learning about the document type Stock P.O.

### Benefits
- Stock P.O.s serve to maintain the stock on hand. Apart from stock articles, they can also include articles which are not kept on stock.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Manual purchase order** | Purchase orders which do not have to be created from an order item by means of P.O. transfer, have to be entered manually. |
| **Independent P.O.** | Independent P.O.s serve to enter all products that can be purchased. Independent P.O.s do not refer to an order. |
| **Stock P.O.s** | Stock P.O.s are a separate document type. They serve to replenish the stock. |
| **Default settings** | **Master data:** <ul><li>Supplier file</li></ul> **Suppliers:** <ul><li>Order tab</li><li>Finance tab</li><li>Balance tab</li></ul> **Company data:** <ul><li>Parameters tab</li><li>Stock/PP/EDI tab</li></ul> |

### Independent P.O.s
All purchase orders for products which do not have the **Purchase order** or **Purchase order (complete)** purchase code and have not been created from an order must be entered manually.

All products needed for production or sales can be entered in purchase orders. A distinction is made between articles that can be booked as stock articles and those that are kept on stock but do not appear on any stock list. Purchase orders for stock articles and boxes have to have the document type **Stock P.O.** to make sure that receipt of goods can be booked correctly.

When you enter the corresponding terms for your suppliers, the purchase orders will show the current purchase prices right away. They serve for checking the prices in order confirmations (OC) and invoices received from your suppliers.

### Stock P.O.s
Stock P.O.s are entered as a separate document type; the items can include all purchase articles, stock sizes, boxes, and special sizes that are kept as stock articles. Receipts of goods for inventory items from inventory P.O.s are booked directly into the stock on hand.

If you enter stock P.O.s with items which are not recorded as stock articles, they will not be displayed at receipt of goods. You can however enable the corresponding option in the company data.

Stock P.O.s are described in detail in the **Stock management** section.

### Purchase prices
The purchase price is loaded from the purchase price lists. The corresponding prices are displayed when you enter P.O. items, and are updated when changes are made.

### Entering an independent P.O.
All products defined in master data can be entered in an independent P.O.

> **Working with Number Managers**
> Configure the Number Managers for purchase orders in such a way that documents can be compiled in accordance with unambiguous criteria, e.g. by supplier, by date, stock P.O.s, or completely delivered orders.

#### How to enter an independent P.O.
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O. > P.O.**
    The **Document management** dialog opens.
    ⇨ Sales, "Document - header data" on page C-1542
2.  Go to the menu **Functions > Select NM** and check if the right Number Manager has been set, and correct the setting if necessary.
3.  Enter the document header by selecting the supplier.

**Fig. D-44: Entering an independent P.O.**
- **A:** Supplier's delivery date
- **B:** Document type

4.  Check the delivery date (A). This is the date on which you expect the delivery to arrive at your premises.
5.  Go to the field **Type** (B) and select the entry `<n.s.>`.
    If you set the type to `<n.s.>`, the receipt of goods will not be added to the stock.
    The stock P.O. is described in a separate unit.
    ⇨ "How to enter a stock P.O. with boxes" on page D-1904
6.  Enter the items as described in chapter P.O. items included in the order.
    ⇨ "How to enter an item for the P.O. in the order" on page D-1875
7.  Print and send the purchase order.

Now the purchase order is in the Number Manager you have defined. The supplier's order confirmation and/or receipt of goods can be added later.
⇨ "Enter receipt of goods" on page D-1948

### Enter stock P.O.
You can also use a stock P.O. to order items which cannot be booked as stock items. A message will make you aware of these order items upon saving. These items are not automatically added to stock upon receipt of goods.

The following guideline shows how to enter a stock P.O. for boxes. These box P.O.s can be processed further in the Dealing with boxes subject.

#### How to enter a stock P.O. with boxes
1.  Enter the document as described in the section **Independent P.O.**
    ⇨ "How to enter an independent P.O." on page D-1902
2.  Go to field **Type** and select the entry **Stock P.O.**
    If you set the type to `<n.s.>`, goods received cannot be automatically added to stock.
3.  Go to the **Items** tab.
4.  Enter the product number, e.g. **1005**.
    You can specify the number after selecting the stock article. You do not need to enter sizes as they are taken from the stock article.
5.  Go to the menu **Start > Stock search** to open the **Stock info** dialog.
    You can also open this dialog by pressing `<F3>`.

**Fig. D-45: Stock info - Stock search**
- **A:** Product number of glass type
- **B:** Box (without ID)

⇨ Sales, "Stock info" on page C-1825

The **Stock info** dialog opens providing a list of all boxes and stock sizes. For boxes, the entry in column **Cont.** is greater than 1.

6.  Select the required box without box ID and accept it by a double click.
    The dialog is closed and you will find yourself back at item entry. In the input line, you will find that all fields from **Quantity** onwards are locked for boxes. The price fields are updated.

**Fig. D-46: Box at item entry**
- **A:** Amount
- **B:** Quantity

7.  Enter the amount required.
    The display of details is updated.
8.  Repeat steps 4 to 7 to enter all P.O. items.
9.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the data.
    The data is saved.
10. Print and send the purchase order.

## Supplier's order confirmation

### Objectives
- Enter supplier's order confirmation (OC)
- Enter OC per item
- Check prices in the OC
- Send reminder for overdue order confirmations

### Benefits
- The supplier's order confirmation is allocated to the purchase order. The delivery date is confirmed or amended without having to open the purchase order itself. Changed dates will be applied to the reference documents.
- The status of reference orders is automatically changed together with the status of the purchase order.
- OCs for confirmation of partial quantities can be entered without having to enter the data anew.
- The Number Manager can be filtered for overdue purchase orders in order to send reminders to the suppliers in question.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Partial confirmation** | If your supplier confirms delivery of the ordered quantity in several partial quantities, you can enter order confirmations (OC) for the individual items or partial quantities. |
| **Status** | The status of the reference documents is raised when you enter the supplier's order confirmation in one of the documents. |
| **Document lock** | Reference documents are locked for other users while the price and invoice control is run. |
| **Send reminder** | The reminder is sent to the supplier via the same channel as the P.O. |
| **Default settings** | Supplier master data: Fax and email dispatch |

### Supplier's OC
Your supplier acknowledges receipt of your purchase order by an order confirmation (OC). You can enter the number of this order confirmation and allocate it to the corresponding purchase order. At the same time, you can check the dates and prices and amend them in your documents if necessary.

When you enter an order confirmation, you can move the purchase order and/or corresponding customer order to a target Number Manager for further processing.

### Partial deliveries
It may happen that for larger orders, your supplier does not confirm all items or the entire quantity for the desired date but announces a certain number of partial deliveries. You can confirm a part of the purchase order in this case without having to create a new document.

### Status
The status of all reference documents is changed when the order confirmation number has been acknowledged. The reference documents are displayed when the order or P.O. number is entered. For independent purchase orders, the corresponding fields are locked.

### Order confirmation and delivery date
The supplier's order confirmations can be entered in different ways:
- Order confirmation with or without receipt of goods. You can check the delivery dates and notify your customer in case of a delay.
- Confirmation for individual P.O. items.
- Order confirmation and price control. You can check and correct the purchase prices and the delivery date and enter a partial delivery for an ordered quantity if required. You can find a description of this variant under:
  ⇨ "Price and invoice control" on page D-1964

Based on a customer order, several purchase orders can be created for different suppliers. The different order confirmation numbers are saved for the corresponding order items.

### Overdue deliveries
You can send reminders for overdue order confirmations or deliveries. The search for open orders can be restricted to a date, to certain suppliers and/or Number Managers.

The reminder is sent to the supplier by the same communication channel as for the purchase order. The rule is:
- **Fax:** A+W Business transfers the purchase orders directly to a fax machine, to be passed on to the supplier.
- **Regular mail:** A+W Business sends the purchase orders directly to a printer.

The reminder is always issued for all purchase orders selected by means of the search criteria. Purchase orders for the same supplier are compiled in one reminder.

### Order confirmation entry
For a P.O., you enter the order confirmation (OC) of your supplier and thus raise the status of the P.O.

The following instructions exist for this training module:
- "How to enter an order confirmation for an entire P.O." on page D-1910
- "How to enter an order confirmation for a P.O. item" on page D-1912

#### How to enter an order confirmation for an entire P.O.
1.  Go to **Documents > P.O. > OC supplier**.

**Fig. D-47: Enter the OC of the supplier**
- **A:** Search mode
- **B:** Document number

⇨ Software Reference, "OC supplier" on page D-2016

2.  Choose the option (A) which you would like to use to search for the open purchase orders, e.g. **P.O. number**.
3.  Enter the purchase order number (B) and press `<Tab>` to jump to the next field.
    The data will be loaded and displayed.

**Fig. D-48: OC supplier - Documents**
- **A:** Target Number Manager
- **B:** Book complete receipt of goods
- **C:** Delivery date as per the order confirmation
- **D:** Order confirmation number

4.  Select the target Number Manager (A) for orders or purchase orders if the corresponding documents are to be transferred to other Number Managers.
5.  Tick the checkbox **Book receipt of goods** (B) only if you want to book the complete receipt of goods for this purchase order at the same time.
    With this setting, you cannot book a partial receipt of goods. The receipt of goods is explained in a separate unit.
    ⇨ "Enter receipt of goods" on page D-1948
6.  Check the dates (C) in sections **P.O. data** and **Order data** and correct them if necessary.
7.  Enter the number of the order confirmation (D) received from your supplier.
8.  Go to the menu **Start > Execute** to save the data.
    The data is saved. The order confirmation number appears in the overview.
    If you book a receipt of goods at the same time, the status of the purchase order is changed accordingly.

#### How to enter an order confirmation for a P.O. item
1.  Fill in the fields as described in steps 2 to 6 of the previous process.
2.  Go to the **Items** tab.

**Fig. D-49: OC supplier – Items**
- **A:** Item numbers
- **B:** Date of partial delivery

3.  Enter the item number(s) (A) for which you have received an order confirmation.
    If you do not have an unbroken sequence of numbers, you have to individually repeat the steps for each item, e.g. for item 1, 3 and 7.
4.  Enter the date of delivery of the items in the field **Partial delivery date**.
5.  Go to the menu **Start > Execute** to save the data.

**Fig. D-50: OC supplier - Partial delivery**
- **A:** OC number
- **B:** Confirmed date

The data is saved. The OC number and the partial delivery date are shown in the overview.

### Enter order confirmation and check prices
Prices can be checked based on the supplier's order confirmation or based on the supplier's invoice. The **Price control** and **Invoice control** dialogs have the same structure.

Your supplier's order confirmation may cover several purchase orders. These can be collected in the **Price control** dialog to be checked together.

The following instructions exist for this training module:
- "How to enter an order confirmation from your supplier, and check the prices" on page D-1914
- "How to enter a collective order confirmation from your supplier" on page D-1916

Price and invoice control is described in detail in a separate unit.
⇨ "Checking the invoice" on page D-1967

#### How to enter an order confirmation from your supplier, and check the prices
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.s > Order confirmation > Price control**.

**Fig. D-51: Enter an order confirmation number from your supplier and check the prices**
- **A:** Data stated in the order confirmation
- **B:** Confirmed total
- **C:** Display mode for prices
- **D:** Search P.O.(s)

⇨ Software Reference, "Invoice control - Purchase orders" on page D-2062

2.  Enter your supplier's order confirmation number (A) and the confirmed delivery date.
3.  Enter the P.O. number (D) and use `<Tab>` to go to the next field.
    The purchase order is displayed in the **P.O.s** overview.
    If an order confirmation includes several purchase orders, you can enter the P.O. numbers one by one. The following guideline describes this.
4.  Enter the amount confirmed by your supplier in the field **OC total** (B).
    The amount must be identical with the amount loaded from the purchase order. If the supplier has stated a different amount which you are going to accept, you have to change the prices in the purchase order. These changes can be entered on the **Items** tab.
    Please make sure that the mode (C) for displaying the amounts has been set correctly.

> **Currency**
> If you are using just one currency (EUR), the entry in field **Exchange rate** must be 1.

**Fig. D-52: Enter an order confirmation number from your supplier and check the prices**
- **A:** OC total
- **B:** Amount from the P.O.

5.  To confirm the entry, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The amount will be checked and the **Items** tab appears.

**Fig. D-53: Check P.O. item prices**
- **A:** Item price
- **B:** Difference across all items

If you need to change an item price, change the amount in the corresponding item (A). The change will be saved in the purchase order.

6.  If no (more) differences are shown, go to the menu **Start > Execute**. (B).
    The data will be saved, and the P.O. status is changed. You will find yourself back on **P.O.s** tab where you can enter the next order confirmation. The price control for this purchase order cannot be performed again.

#### How to enter a collective order confirmation from your supplier

> **Collect purchase orders**
> You can collect the purchase orders stated on the supplier's order confirmation in a Number Manager which can be selected in the **P.O. data** section.
>
> Alternatively, you can compile the purchase orders in the **Price control** dialog. This process is described in the following instruction.

1.  Use the **Price control** dialog to enter your supplier's order confirmation number and the delivery date as described above.
    If you have compiled the purchase orders in a Number Manager, select the Number Manager and proceed with step 5.
2.  Enter the number of the first purchase order and wait until it is loaded.
3.  Enter the number of the next purchase order stated on the order confirmation.
    The purchase order is displayed in the **P.O.s** overview. You can only combine purchase orders with the same tax rate however.
4.  Repeat this step until all purchase orders are listed in the overview.
    To remove a purchase order from the overview, select it and press `<Del>`.

**Fig. D-54: Enter an order confirmation number from your supplier and check the prices**

5.  Now enter the amount confirmed by your supplier.
    This amount must match the total of the listed purchase orders.
6.  To confirm the entry, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The amount will be checked and the **Items** tab appears. If you need to change an item price, change the amount in the corresponding item. The change will be saved in the purchase order.
7.  If no (more) differences are shown, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The data will be saved, and the status of the purchase orders is changed.

## Remind supplier
Order confirmations and deliveries are recorded to ensure the proper processing of your purchase orders. You can remind suppliers that are late.

> **Collect purchase orders**
> You can collect the purchase orders stated on the supplier's order confirmation in a Number Manager.

### How to remind a supplier
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.s > Order confirmation > Reminder**.

**Fig. D-55: Remind supplier**
- **A:** Supplier
- **B:** Number Manager with overdue P.O.s
- **C:** Restricting the selection to a status area
- **D:** (Do not) remind supplier again
- **E:** Entry date of purchase order
- **F:** Modes of dispatch of P.O. order

⇨ Software Reference, "Reminder" on page D-2042

2.  Filter the view:
    - by supplier (A)
    - by a Number Manager (B)
3.  Use the fields **Minimum status** and **Status below** (C) to define a status area for the purchase orders about whose delivery you want to remind the supplier.
    One criterion for the minimum status could be that the purchase order has been printed or that the order confirmation has been entered. The criterion for the other status should lie before the status **Receipt of goods**.
4.  Restrict the selection of purchase orders to a date (E).
    The current date is displayed by default.
5.  If you do not want to send another reminder to a supplier who has already received a reminder, tick off the checkbox (C) for this criterion.
    Suppliers who have already received a reminder will not appear on this list. If the checkbox is ticked, these suppliers are shown in red. They will be reminded again of the overdue deliveries.
6.  Select the method of dispatch (F) used for the purchase orders.
    If you are using different modes of dispatching purchase orders to your suppliers, observe the communication path for the selected supplier.
    Option **All** is useful if you are using different methods of sending purchase orders to your suppliers, and the selection is not restricted to a certain supplier.
7.  To start the search, go to the menu **Start > Search**.

**Fig. D-56: Selection of suppliers to be reminded**

The open purchase orders appear on the overview.

8.  Choose the required output media in the **Print** menu.
    The reminder is issued.

**Fig. D-57: Reminders created**

All entries on the overview are shown in red afterwards.

## Delivery date check

### Objectives
- Checking the delivery dates for reference documents.
- Change dates.
- Inform the customer of the change.

### Benefits
- Dates have to be changed in only one of the reference documents.
- Delivery dates can be changed in various dialogs. Purchase orders or orders which have been compiled in a separate Number Manager can be changed without the need to open the individual documents.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Changing dates in reference documents** | All amendments of purchase orders are saved in the reference orders. This also works vice versa. |
| **Customer information dialog** | This dialog can be used to change the delivery date and notify the customer. |
| **Document data dialog** | This dialog is used to adapt all dates in the orders and in reference purchase orders. You can also change the routes for orders, and change several documents at the same time. |
| **Default settings** | Customer master data (fax or email dispatch) |

### Delivery date check and correction
Your supplier will confirm or correct the dates stated in your purchase orders. Order confirmations and delivery dates conveyed by the supplier are allocated to the purchase orders by creating supplier OCs. Changed dates will be automatically adopted for the reference documents.

You can also use the options in the **Customer information** dialog or the **Communication** menu to inform the customer, or just call them.

You can change the delivery date itself in various dialogs:
- Document management (order, purchase order)
- Document data
- Customer information (delivery date check)
- OC supplier
- Inspection of goods received

Dates are usually corrected in the purchase orders upon which they are saved in the reference orders.

### Customer information
You can use the **Customer information** dialog to inform the customer of a delay in delivery (Delivery date check). An email address must have been entered in the customer's master data for this purpose. In the order itself, the checkbox **Email** must be ticked in the **Address** section.

### Change delivery dates, notify customer
You have to check and correct the delivery dates of purchase orders and reference orders and, if necessary, notify the customer if the delivery dates cannot be met. This can be done via the **Customer information** dialog.

You can open it as follows:
- **Order or P.O. > Functions > Group document > Check delivery dates**
- **Documents > Customer information**

Use the **Document data** dialog to check and correct the production dates as well.
⇨ "How to check and change document data" on page D-1926

#### How to change the delivery date
1.  Open the order, the dates of which you want to check or have changed.
2.  Select **Documents > Customer information**.

**Fig. D-58: Change the date of delivery to the customer**
- **A:** Search mode
- **B:** Scheduled delivery date

⇨ Sales, "Customer information (delivery date check)" on page C-1673

3.  Select the option (A) **Orders** or **P.O.s** and the Number Manager if required.
    If the Number Manager includes very many documents, you can restrict the view to the originally scheduled delivery date (B).
4.  To import the data, go to the menu **Start > Search**.

**Fig. D-59: Check delivery dates**
- **A:** Customer has not been informed of the new date yet
- **B:** Scheduled delivery date stated in the order
- **C:** New delivery date

5.  Select the order for which you want to change the date of delivery to the customer and go to the **Postponement** tab.

**Fig. D-60: Change the date of delivery to the customer**
- **A:** New delivery date at the customer's site.
- **B:** Order for which the change applies

6.  Select the order (B) for which the customer date is to be postponed.
    You can select several orders if they all have the same delivery date and route.
7.  Enter the new date (A) and change the route if necessary.
8.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the changes.
    You can print the new date for the customer and dispatch it via the usual communication channel.
9.  Go to the **Print** menu and select the printer.
    The notification is created and can be dispatched. If you have changed several dates, a notification will be issued for each customer.

### Check and change all dates
The **Document data** dialog can be used to view all purchase orders and orders in order to check the delivery dates as well as the production dates and change them if necessary. You can compile orders, e.g. in order to change the dates in several orders at the same time.

The following instructions exist for this training module:
- "How to check and change document data" on page D-1926
- "How to collect documents for common changes" on page D-1929

#### How to check and change document data
1.  Go to **Documents > Document data**.
    ⇨ Sales, "Document data" on page C-1823

**Fig. D-61: Check dates for orders containing purchase items**
- **A:** Document type
- **B:** Number of the searched document

2.  Select the document type, e.g. **order** or **purchase order**.
    You can also view all documents from one Number Manager. In this example, one single order is to be checked.
    You can change the dates for several orders and/or purchase orders that are not in a collective Number Manager.
    ⇨ "How to collect documents for common changes" on page D-1929
3.  Enter the order number and adopt the data by pressing `<Enter>`.

**Fig. D-62: Check dates for orders containing purchase items**
- **A:** Customer dates
- **B:** New date of supplier

The fields in the **Order** area show the data from the order header. The P.O. data appears in the fields in the **P.O.** area.

4.  Adapt the supplier date (B) and customer dates (A).
    If you select the dates from the calendar, you can take the customer's route days into account.
5.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the data.
    The new dates are saved and adopted for the corresponding documents.

**Fig. D-63: Changed dates**

You can inform the customer of the new date now.

#### How to collect documents for common changes
1.  Go to **Documents > Document data**.

**Fig. D-64: Check dates for orders containing purchase items**
- **A:** Document type
- **B:** Number of the searched document
- **C:** Do not mark the Number Manager

2.  Select the document type, e.g. **order** (A).
3.  Make sure that the checkbox (C) **Number Manager** is unchecked.
4.  Enter the order number (B) and adopt the data by pressing `<Enter>`.
    The order data is shown on the overview. The section **P.O.** lists the reference purchase orders.
5.  Repeat this step until you have compiled all orders to be changed together.
    Make sure that all orders with the same route can be delivered and that they have the same delivery date.

**Fig. D-65: Orders for collective date change**
- **A:** Order dates
- **B:** P.O. dates

The list shows all orders.

6.  Select all listed orders by keeping the `<Ctrl>` key pressed.
7.  Change the dates (A, B).
8.  Check the route and change it if necessary.
9.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the data.
    The new dates will be applied to all listed orders and the reference purchase orders. You can notify the customer now.

## Inquiry

### Objectives
- Obtaining inquiries from suppliers
- Generating a P.O. from an inquiry
- Obtaining inquiries for an order item

### Benefits
- To agree on dates and capacities, inquiries can be made via the order pool.
- An inquiry can be turned into a purchase order without having to enter the data again.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Inquiries** | Like purchase orders, inquiries can be entered manually or can be created from a customer order by means of the order pool. |
| **P.O.** | Purchase orders can be created from any type of inquiry. |
| **References** | References to order items are kept in the inquiry and in the purchase order if these are created from the order pool. If a purchase order is created by copying an inquiry, the reference exists only between these two documents. |
| **Default settings**| **Master data:** <ul><li>Supplier > Order tab</li></ul> |

### Inquiry for P.O. items or purchase orders
Inquiries are created and sent to the supplier in the same way as purchase orders. When the quotation comes in and is accepted, you can turn the inquiry into a purchase order without having to enter the data once more. You can use the function **Copy document** for this purpose.

You can also create inquiries for P.O. items from a customer order.

**Fig. D-66: Inquiry – P.O.**

If the option **Direct inquiry** was selected during the P.O. transfer, inquiries from a customer order are also generated. If this is done by means of the order pool, you can even create inquiries for individual order items and select a certain supplier.

Of course, these inquiries can also be turned into purchase orders. The reference to the order will be kept only if the resulting purchase orders are created by means of the order pool as well.

Independent inquiries are created in the same way as orders and purchase orders. The **Documents** module offers the **Inquiries** menu for this purpose.

### Create an inquiry for a P.O. item
You can create an inquiry for a P.O. item, e.g. to find out whether the supplier can offer the necessary capacity. Every inquiry can be turned into a purchase order by means of the order pool.

The following instructions exist for this training module:
- "How to create an inquiry based on a customer order" on page D-1933
- "How to create a P.O. from a reference inquiry" on page D-1934

#### How to create an inquiry based on a customer order
1.  Go to **Documents > Order > P.O. transfer**.

**Fig. D-67: Transfer orders from the Number Manager**
- **A:** Transfer mode
- **B:** Number Manager with orders for transfer
- **C:** Target Number Manager

2.  Select the mode **Direct inquiry** (A) and the Number Manager (B) you used to collect the orders with P.O. items.
3.  Select the target Number Manager (C) to which the inquiries shall be made.
    You can enter a new name and thus create a new Number Manager. If you select another user, the Number Manager will be allocated to him/her.
4.  Choose the **Client** and the **OM area** in the section **Target number area** if required.
5.  To transfer the items, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    Confirm the positive report.
    An inquiry has been created for every P.O. item. You can use **Documents > Inquiry** to open and print the inquiries and send them to the supplier.

#### How to create a P.O. from a reference inquiry
1.  Open the **P.O. transfer** dialog.

**Fig. D-68: Transfer orders from the Number Manager**
- **A:** Transfer mode
- **B:** Number Manager with orders for transfer
- **C:** Target Number Manager

2.  Select the Number Manager (B) that includes the orders for which you have created inquiries.
3.  Choose the option **Fill pool** (A).
4.  To move the orders to the order pool, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The P.O. items are imported and the display changes to the **Order pool** tab.

**Fig. D-69: Create P.O.s for orders**
- **A:** P.O. mode
- **B:** Inquiries generated for the displayed order
- **C:** Target Number Manager

The document numbers of the inquiries are shown for the inquiry items from the order.

5.  Select the option **P.O.s** (A) and the target Number Manager (C) for P.O.s.
6.  Select the items for which a purchase order is to be created.
    Double-click on the corresponding line header. Only items marked with an X have been selected.
7.  To generate purchase orders, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    Purchase orders have been created. The transferred items are removed from the order pool.
    You can use **Documents > P.O.** to open and print the purchase orders and send them to the supplier.

### Create a purchase order from an independent inquiry
You can create a purchase order from any inquiry with the copy function, no matter whether the inquiry is referenced or not. References to customer orders will not be adopted however.

The copy function is described in detail in the **Sales** section.

#### How to enter a purchase order for an inquiry
1.  Open the inquiry for which you want to enter a purchase order.
2.  Select the menu **Functions > Document group > Copy documents**.

**Fig. D-70: Creating a P.O. from an inquiry**
- **A:** Target document type
- **B:** Copy mode
- **C:** Target Number Manager

3.  Select the document type **P.O.** (A).
    The **Target** area automatically shows the first Number Manager for purchase orders.
4.  Choose a different target Number Manager (C) if required.
5.  Check the other settings.
6.  To generate the purchase order, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The items are checked and copied. The purchase order is saved.
7.  Close the dialog.
    The **Copy documents** dialog disappears and is replaced by the **Document management** dialog.
    The inquiry and P.O. history shows the reference. You can use **Documents > P.O.** to open and print the generated purchase order and send it to the supplier.

## Exercises

> **Checking prerequisites and master data**
> When working with your own system please make sure that the settings in master data meet the requirements for the smooth entry of documents and goods received.
> Please also make sure that the document status is changed correctly if the documents are to be processed further, e.g. in the order pool.

### Enter a P.O. item in the order
Enter a customer order with the following items:
- Items with different purchase codes.
- Items which can be provided by different suppliers.
- Items which do not have to be ordered.

> **Tip**
> Create 2-3 copies of the orders and of the manual purchase orders so that you can check the different effects of amendments, e.g. change of supplier on different levels.

### Enter a manual P.O.
Enter a purchase order with the following items:
- Items with stock articles and products which are not kept on stock.
- Items with different boxes.
- At least five boxes per item

### Transfer the order to Purchasing
Transfer the orders to Purchasing:
- at least one order directly (without order pool).
- at least one order via the order pool.
- Now check the new purchases order for differences.

### Enter order confirmation and check prices
Enter an order confirmation for at least one reference and one manual purchase order each.

### Check and amend delivery dates, notify customer
Enter the following changes:
- Enter a larger amount in an item in a reference order and transfer the item again.
- Select another supplier because he cannot keep the originally confirmed dates.
- Change the delivery date in a purchase order, then inform the customer of the delay.

### Remind supplier
Search for purchase orders for which you have not entered an order confirmation yet, and send a reminder to the supplier.

### Additional information
- "Supplier file" on page D-1853
- "Deliveries in receipt of goods" on page D-1940
- "Dealing with boxes" on page D-1957
- "Receipt of boxes" on page D-1956
- "Electronic document exchange" on page D-1971

### Sales section
- Sales, "Copy Documents" on page C-1365
- Sales, "Copy documents" on page C-1645
- Sales, "Order/P.O. info" on page C-1670
- Sales, "Document Data" on page C-1822

### Master data section
- Master data, "Product" on page B-201
- Master data, "Currencies" on page B-530
- Master data, "Stock Sizes" on page B-707
- Master data, "Prices" on page B-770
- Master data, "Partner Management" on page B-808
- Master data, "Company Data" on page B-942
- Master data, "Show items w/o inventory code for stock P.O.s are receipt of goods" on page B-983

### Stock management section
- Stock management, "Stock Management" on page G-2491
- Stock management, "Stock P.O. (automatic)" on page G-2530
- Stock Management, "Stock management - stock articles" on page G-2611
- Stock Management, "Stock movement - dispatch, addition" on page G-2621

# Deliveries in receipt of goods

This subject shows you how to check the prices and invoices and enter the receipt of goods.

This includes the following training modules:
- "Receipt of goods" on page D-1941
- "Receipt of boxes" on page D-1956
- "Price and invoice control" on page D-1964

Receipt of goods usually includes the following steps:
- Enter a delivery as receipt of goods
- Check receipt of goods for outstanding or incomplete deliveries
- Check the invoice.
- Transfer documents to archives and statistics.
- Delete document from main database.

This sequence more or less matches the sequence of dialogs in A+W Business. Some of the steps can be executed in different dialogs however. This is why they have been summed up in one training session.

The prices on the order confirmation are naturally checked prior to the receipt of goods. This tutorial describes price control and invoice control together because the corresponding dialogs are structured in the same way.

Archiving of documents has already been introduced in the Sales tutorial which is why we are not going to deal with this again at this point.

## Receipt of goods

### Objectives
- Learning about the Receipt of goods dialog.
- Learning about the difference between goods received for stock P.O.s and for reference P.O.s.
- Checking received goods for completeness
- Being able to add omitted 'goods received' bookings

### Benefits
- Deliveries must be entered so that customer order can be completed and shipped.
- The stock is updated when goods received for stock are entered so that you always have a good idea of the actual stock on hand.
- Receipt of goods can be entered even if the ordered quantity differs from the quantity delivered.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Incomplete delivery** | Partial receipt of goods can be entered if the delivered quantity does not match the quantity ordered. |
| **Surplus quantities** | If the stock articles delivered (with a stock ID) exceeds the number of stock articles ordered, this quantity will be booked on stock. The receipt of goods of surplus quantities will only be booked if you have ticked the **Accept** checkbox. Surpluses for customers orders must be permitted and restricted in the master data. |
| **Default settings** | **Company data:** <ul><li>Parameters tab</li><li>Stock/PP/EDI tab</li></ul> **Master data (surplus):** <ul><li>Customer, supplier</li><li>Product</li></ul> |

### Deliveries
When entering goods received, a distinction is made between the receipt of boxes, stock P.O.s, independent, and reference purchase orders.

**Fig. D-71: Receipt of goods and stock bookings**

This distinction helps Stock Management to maintain the stock data.

After booking the receipt of goods, all automatic surcharges for the purchase order are recalculated and saved.

### Receipt of goods for stock P.O.s
Booking the receipt of goods for stock P.O.s updates the stock on hand. The **Stock info** dialog shows the reserved quantities in addition to the stock on hand. This gives you a proper idea of the current and the future stock on hand even at item entry.

Even stock P.O. items that include articles without stock codes are displayed at receipt of goods, and can be booked. These bookings will not change the stock on hand however.

**Fig. D-72: Receipt of goods – Purchase orders in the Number Manager**
- **A:** Delivery date of the selected P.O.
- **B:** Completely booked receipt of goods in blue
- **C:** Points out a lock status
- **D:** Reference order for the selected P.O.

### P.O. item for production
If you have entered a P.O. item in a customer order which is necessary for producing this order, it can be processed further only after receipt of goods. When you enter the receipt of goods, production must be informed so that the order can be produced.

You can enable an option in receipt of goods which automatically triggers the transfer as soon as the receipt of this item has been entered.

For order items with the code **P.O.(complete)**, the status is changed and passed on to the order so that the order can be shipped.

### Items without stock codes
If you enter stock P.O.s with items which are not recorded as stock items, they will not be displayed at receipt of goods. You can however enable the corresponding option in the company data.

**Fig. D-73: Company data – Stock/PP/EDI tab**
- **A:** Activate the display in receipt of goods

### Partial receipt of goods
Receipt of goods can be booked in full or partially. Partial receipt of goods can apply to individual items as well as to partial deliveries for individual items, e.g. items 5 and 7 of a purchase order or "15 pcs. of an item for which 30 pcs. had been ordered. The status of the purchase order and/or the order will be set accordingly afterwards.

### Receipt of goods for BOM elements
BOM elements are not listed individually in receipt of goods but belong to the corresponding main product. The article description shows the BOM elements separated by "/".

### Deliveries with surpluses
If a supplier delivers more pieces of an item than have been ordered (surplus), you can enter this delivery at receipt of goods. In case of stock articles (with a stock ID) from a document of the type **Stock P.O.**, the delivered quantity is added to stock. In the P.O. itself, the quantity is changed accordingly.

The same applies to shortfalls which are rather infrequent in practice however.

The surpluses and shortfalls are defined in the following dialogs:
- **Per customer and per product:** Relative amount of divergence.
- **Per product:** Relative amount of divergence.
- **Per order item:** also divergent quantity

### Inspection of goods received
The **Inspection of goods received** dialog offers a quick overview of open or incomplete deliveries.

**Fig. D-74: Control of the receipt of goods**
- **A:** P.O. number
- **B:** Ordered quantity
- **C:** Delivered quantity
- **D:** Receipt of goods complete

You can make up for the booking of purchase orders or P.O. items for which the receipt of goods has not yet been entered although they have been delivered.

### Check the default settings for receipt of goods
The default settings for the receipt of goods have to be made in company data. The corresponding parameters and options are found on the following tabs:
- Parameters
- Stock/PP/EDI

**Fig. D-75: Company data – Parameters tab**
- **A:** Virtual item numbers for the receipt of boxes

Virtual item numbers are created so that the boxes received can be booked correctly. This function is described in the unit on the receipt of boxes.
⇨ "Receipt of boxes" on page D-1956

### Stock on hand
To be able to update the stock on hand based on the booked receipts, the reservation option and the stock management on BOM level have to be enabled in company data.

**Fig. D-76: Company data – Stock/PP/EDI tab**
- **A:** Reservation and updating of stock on hand
- **B:** Stock management on BOM level

### Enter receipt of goods
You can use receipt of goods to enter the supplier's order confirmation (OC) number and change the delivery date. You can book partial deliveries by entering the quantity delivered for an item, or by just marking individual items as completely delivered.

> **Entry in receipt of goods**
> Generally the document numbers are entered via the barcode scanner. They are entered manually for the following examples. All other steps are identical for both variants.

The following instructions exist for this training module:
- "How to enter complete receipt of goods" on page D-1949
- "How to enter partial receipt of goods" on page D-1951

#### How to enter complete receipt of goods
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.> Receipt of goods > Receipt of goods**.

**Fig. D-77: Receipt of goods - Selection by Number Manager**
- **A:** Selection by Number Manager
- **B:** Selecting the Number Manager

⇨ Software Reference, "Receipt of goods (dialog)" on page D-2044

2.  Go to **Selection area** and choose the option **by Number Manager**.
3.  To import the data, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The display switches to the **Complete** tab where the purchase orders from the Number Manager are displayed.

**Fig. D-78: Receipt of goods – Purchase orders**
- **A:** Delivery date and order confirmation for the selected P.O.
- **B:** Points out a lock status
- **C:** Checkbox for complete receipt of goods
- **D:** Indicates that the P.O. includes boxes

The fields in section **Delivery date** (A) are locked if an order confirmation from the supplier has been entered for this purchase order.

4.  Select the purchase order for which you want to enter receipt of goods.
    The fields in **Delivery date** (A) area are accessible now. Normally, the delivery date and the OC number of the supplier have already been created. You can however add this data if it is missing.
5.  Tick the checkbox **book completely** (C).

**Fig. D-79: Receipt of goods – Report P.O. completed**

6.  To enter the receipt of goods, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The data will be saved, and the P.O. status is changed. The stock on hand is updated if the P.O. includes stock articles. For reference P.O.s, receipt of goods is passed on to production and/or sales so that the corresponding customer order can be processed or completed.

#### How to enter partial receipt of goods
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.> Receipt of goods > Receipt of goods**.
2.  Go to **Selection area** and choose the option **by P.O. number** (A) then enter the P.O. number (B).

**Fig. D-80: Receipt of goods – Selection**
- **A:** Selection by P.O. number
- **B:** P.O. number

3.  To import the data, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    Data will be loaded; the display switches to the **Complete** tab.
    Should you frequently select by P.O. or order number, you can define in the **Options** menu that after loading the document, the display should switch to the **By item** tab.
4.  Go to the **By item** tab if required.

**Fig. D-81: Receipt of goods – Report partial quantity for the P.O.**
- **A:** Book item completely
- **B:** Storage place for stock articles
- **C:** Enter partial quantity as receipt of goods
- **D:** Quantity already delivered
- **E:** Accept surplus or shortfall
- **F:** Order confirmation number

All P.O. items will be displayed. You can enter partial receipt of goods as follows:
- Complete booking of one of the P.O. items (A).
- Enter part (C) of the ordered quantity for an item.

If for instance the quantity delivered for a stock P.O. does not exactly match the ordered quantity, you can accept a surplus or a shortfall (E), thus booking complete receipt of goods for an item.

5.  Select the item for which you want to enter receipt of goods.
6.  Go to field **Quantity received** (C) and enter the number of items received or tick the checkbox **Book completely** (A) to report the entire item as complete.
7.  Enter the supplier's order confirmation number (F) if required.
8.  For stock articles, choose the storage place (B).

**Fig. D-82: Receipt of goods – Report partial quantity for the P.O.**
- **A:** Book item completely
- **B:** Storage place for stock articles
- **C:** Enter partial quantity as receipt of goods
- **D:** Quantity already delivered
- **E:** Accept surplus or shortfall
- **F:** Order confirmation number

9.  Go to the menu **Start > Execute** to save the data.
    Partial receipt of goods will be booked.
    The P.O. items are shown in blue if the purchase order/item has been delivered in full.
    Changes are adopted for the purchase order and the reference customer order if required.
    A surplus will be saved in the purchase order while a reference order will remain unaffected. On stock, the surplus will be booked automatically only for stock articles from stock P.O.s. The same applies to shortfalls theoretically; in practice however one would rather create a partial delivery and remind the supplier of the missing quantity.

### Check receipt of goods
You have to check deliveries for completeness in order to determine which orders can be processed further. If you know that the delivery has actually arrived you can enter the receipt of goods. You can check the following facts:
- Complete purchase orders per Number Manager
- Quantity discrepancies per P.O. item

#### How to check the receipt of goods
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.> Receipt of goods > Incoming control**.

**Fig. D-83: Inspection of goods received – Complete P.O.**

⇨ Software Reference, "Inspection of goods received" on page D-2057

2.  Go to the **Complete P.O.s** tab and select the Number Manager for the purchase orders.
    In the **Receipt of goods complete** overview, all P.O.s are listed, whose P.O.s have been entered completely.
3.  Go to the **Qty. discrepancies** tab to display the incomplete items.

**Fig. D-84: Inspection of goods received - Qty. discrepancies**
- **A:** Quantity partially delivered
- **B:** Book complete receipt of goods

The overview lists all purchase orders for which no receipt has been booked, or incomplete receipt of goods.
If you have moved the purchase order to a target Number Manager when booking the entire receipt of goods, no discrepancies should be shown here.

4.  Catch up on any overdue bookings by ticking the checkbox **OK** (B).
    Please note that you can add only complete receipt of goods. To enter partial quantities, go to the **Receipt of goods** dialog.
5.  To start the booking of the receipt of goods, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    Receipt of goods will be booked. Completely booked purchase orders are removed from the list.

#### Additional information
- Master data, "Show items w/o inventory code for stock P.O.s are receipt of goods" on page B-983
- Master data, "Stock control mode" on page B-983
- Sales, "Stock info" on page C-1825
- Software Reference, "Receipt of goods" on page D-2044

## Receipt of boxes

### Objectives
- Learning the meaning of the dummy box
- Learning about the assignment of IDs
- Learning about the settings for the automatic assignment of box IDs

### Benefits
- Upon receipt, every box gets an ID so that it can be clearly identified on stock, and can be reserved for an order.
- IDs can be assigned manually or automatically. You can also adopt the supplier's box ID.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Virtual item numbers** | If the quantity of a box item is over 1, a sub-item will be created for every box. These sub-items will get virtual item numbers consisting of the item number and the number of boxes, e.g. 1.1, 1.2 or 3.1, 3.2 etc. |
| **ID** | When you enter receipt of goods, the box of every sub-item is assigned a separate ID. |
| **Box identification** | Only a box with an ID can be booked as stock on hand and/or allocated to an order item. |
| **Default settings** | **Master data:** Product Management <br> **Company data:** <ul><li>Parameters tab</li><li>Stock/PP/EDI tab</li></ul> |

### Dealing with boxes
Boxes are usually assigned ID numbers which may originate from the supplier or are maintained in your own system. These IDs are entered when boxes are received. Every box is booked with its own box ID by which it is kept on stock.

Even if the number of boxes of a P.O. item is over 1, every box is booked as a separate receipt of goods. The system automatically creates sub-items (virtual items) for the original item and allocates just one box to each of these items. This function must be enabled in company data.

An individual box ID must be allocated to each sub-position so that the stock on hand of the boxes can be maintained. These box IDs can be automatically assigned based on the values you define. An ID can also be entered manually, e.g. when adopting the box ID from the supplier's delivery note.

As part of the receipt of goods, a production date can also be specified in the automatic box ID dialog. For coated glass, this can be used for calculating the expiry date so that boxes can be handled according to the FiFo principle (FiFo = First in - First out).

When the IDs have been assigned, you can use the print function to print box labels with the IDs as barcodes, then stick them to the appropriate boxes.

Box barcodes are usually scanned upon issue of stock or when a box is broken up. This does not only serve to keep the number of boxes up to date but also for identifying the boxes.

### Check company data
The **Master data** section describes in detail how to define the master data for your company. The following description therefore only deals with the peculiarities you have to consider in connection with the receipt of boxes.

> **Reboot A+W Business**
> After changing company data, reboot A+W Business.

#### How to check company data
1.  Go to the menu **Master data > Company > Company data** and check the setting for the checkbox **Use virtual item numbers** on the **Parameters** tab.
    This setting is already explained in the unit on Receipt of goods.
    ⇨ "Company data - Parameters tab" on page D-1947
2.  Go to the menu **Start > Save** to save the changes.
    The data is saved.

### Checking the settings for ID numbers
If you want to enter the boxes with a separate box ID, this ID can be assigned automatically. You have to define the necessary settings. These settings can be adapted before every receipt of boxes, e.g. to add a code for the supplier to the ID.

You can use a maximum of 20 characters which are automatically completed by a 5-digit number. The entered string is kept until it is changed manually. If you add a code for the supplier to the box ID, you have to make sure to change the ID before you enter the receipt of boxes for another supplier.

#### How to check the settings for the automatic allocation of ID numbers
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.> Receipt of goods > Receipt of goods**.
    The **Receipt of goods** dialog opens.
2.  Go to the menu **Options > Group > ID number allocation > Settings**.
    ⇨ Software Reference, "Settings (ID)" on page D-2056
3.  Enter the code.
    Please avoid overwriting the dummies (X) for the numbers.
4.  Click on [OK] to save the changes.
    The dialog closes. The settings are saved and will be kept until they are changed again manually.
5.  Go to the menu **Options > Group ID number allocation > Automatic allocation**.
    Automatic allocation of box IDs has been set now.

### Enter the receipt of boxes
When you enter the receipt of boxes, the box of every sub-item is assigned a separate ID. Then the respective labels are printed.

The following instructions exist for this training module:
- “How to enter receipt of boxes with automatic IDs” on page D-1959
- “How to enter box IDs manually” on page D-1962
- “How to print box labels” on page D-1963

#### How to enter receipt of boxes with automatic IDs
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.> Receipt of goods > Receipt of goods**.

**Fig. D-85: Receipt of boxes – by Number Manager**
- **A:** Search option
- **B:** P.O. number

⇨ Software Reference, “Receipt of goods (dialog)” on page D-2044

Please make sure that automatic allocation of box IDs is active.

2.  Choose the option (A) which you would like to search for the open purchase orders, e.g. by **P.O. number**.
3.  Enter the P.O. number (B).
4.  To import the data, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    You will find yourself on the **Complete** tab. You can check the data again.
5.  Go to the **ID** tab.

**Fig. D-86: Receipt of boxes – Enter receipt**
- **A:** Selected P.O.
- **B:** Enter supplier's box ID
- **C:** Storage place
- **D:** One line per box (sub-item)

If the quantity of the ordered item is larger than 1, the **Box items** overview lists a separate line for every box.
You can select several boxes at once to book them in one step.

6.  Select a line that shows no virtual item number yet.
7.  Go to field **Supplier ID** (B) and enter the supplier's box ID or scan the box ID and use `<Tab>` to go to the next field.
    If more than one box was selected and the supplier ident numbers entered, the system calculates the box ident numbers for all marked entries.
8.  Choose the storage place, check the contents and price and correct them if necessary.

**Fig. D-87: Receipt of boxes - Data for the selected line**
- **A:** Supplier's box ID
- **B:** Book receipt of goods for this box

The input is adopted for the selected line.

9.  In the menu, go to **Start > Execute** in order to confirm the entries and to book the receipt of goods.

**Fig. D-88: Receipt of boxes - New, virtual item number created**
- **A:** Virtual item number (booked sub-item)
- **B:** (Automatic) box ID

The box is booked and moved to the end of the **Box items** list together with the next virtual item number.

10. Repeat steps 7 to 9 until you have entered all receipt of goods.
    When you have entered all boxes you can start to print the box labels and the protocol.
    ⇨ "How to print box labels" on page D-1963

#### How to enter box IDs manually
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.> Receipt of goods > Receipt of goods**.
2.  Disable in the menu **Options > Group ID number allocation > Automatic allocation**.
3.  Make the preparations to enter the receipt of goods as described in the steps 2 to 7 of the previous sequence.

**Fig. D-89: Receipt of boxes – Enter receipt**
- **A:** Selected P.O.
- **B:** Supplier's box ID
- **C:** Manual box ID
- **D:** One line per box (sub-item)

If the quantity of the ordered item is larger than 1, the **Box items** overview lists a separate line for every box.

4.  Enter the box ID (C) by which the box shall be booked on stock.
    You can adopt the supplier's ID by moving the cursor to the field and scanning the supplier ID again.
5.  Choose the storage place, check the contents and price and correct them if necessary.
    These entries are only valid for box items selected from the list.
6.  To confirm the entries, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The box is booked and moved to the end of the **Box items** list together with the next virtual item number.
7.  Repeat steps 4 to 6 until you have entered all receipt of goods.
    When you have entered all boxes you can start to print the box labels in order to print labels with the manually allocated IDs.

#### How to print box labels
1.  After entering the boxes of a shipment, go to the menu **Print > Printer > Labels**.
    If you select the entry **Labels and protocol**, a protocol is also printed, which you can also view in the **Protocol (IDs)** tab.

**Fig. D-90: Print box labels**
- **A:** Quantity
- **B:** Printer

2.  Select the printer (B) and the number (A) of copies required.
3.  Click [OK] to start printing.
    The dialog closes and the labels are printed. All booked boxes and box IDs are listed in the protocol.

##### Additional information
- Master data, "Due date calculation for February (28 or 29 days)" on page B-965
- Software Reference, "Settings (ID)" on page D-2056

## Price and invoice control

### Objectives
- Entering the supplier's order confirmation.
- Check prices.
- Entering a collective order confirmation for several purchase orders.

### Benefits
- You can check the prices together with the order confirmation.
- The prices of several purchase orders can be checked in a collective order confirmation.

### Please note:

| Term | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Status** | After checking the prices and invoices, the document status is raised. This is why price and/or invoice control cannot be repeated in connection with a lock status. |
| **Differences** | You can complete the price or invoice control only if there is no difference between the defined total and the total of the purchase orders displayed. |
| **Quick entry** | If you enable the menu **Options > Quick entry**, the cursor switches directly to field **Invoice total** or **OC total** when you enter the P.O. number. You can use this option if you usually enter just one P.O. number. |
| **Document lock** | Reference documents are locked for other users while the price and invoice control is run. |
| **Default settings** | **Company data:** <ul><li>Tax tab</li><li>Pricing tab</li><li>Print tab</li><li>Stock/PP/EDI tab</li></ul> |

### Incoming invoice
Prices can be checked based on the supplier's order confirmation or based on the supplier's invoice. The **Price control** and **Invoice control** dialogs have the same structure. This allows you to correct the prices and update your purchase prices (PP) in the documents.

During price/invoice control, access of the respective purchase order will be blocked for other users. In order to be able to amend the purchase order during the price or invoice control, the document can be opened directly. This permits you e.g. to enter missing surcharges without leaving price and invoice control.

The prices and invoices in electronically exchanged documents can also be checked. This function is described in connection with Electronic document exchange:
⇨ "Export/Import (openTRANS)" on page D-1972

### Price corrections
You can complete price or invoice control only if there is no difference between the defined total and the total of the purchase orders displayed. Such differences can e.g. be attributed to different prices, surcharges that have not been entered, or incorrect entries.

If the amount entered does not match the purchase order or the total of purchase orders, prices have to be corrected in the items or in the BOM – or return the order confirmation/invoice and ask for correction.

After invoice control, the purchase orders get the appropriate status and are now ready for to be released and transferred to financial accounting.

The status of the purchase order is changed accordingly after checking, correcting and confirming the prices.
⇨ "Document status" on page D-1861

### Purchase prices in the order
The PP of a reference order can only be updated for the amount of time allowed by the locking status. The status of the purchase order is raised after the invoice control is complete. Price or invoice control cannot be run again afterwards.

### Footer surcharges and discounts
The footer surcharges/discounts of a purchase order, e.g. an energy surcharge, are saved in the costs of the order. The footer surcharges/discounts are distributed to the individual items and are shown in document management. This way, the contribution margin shown at item entry is always up to date, even for ordered items.

As an option, the item **Delivery fee per P.O.** can be added during invoice control. This way, you do not have to enter it manually later in the purchase order.

### Foreign currency
If you are using several currencies, you can confirm the prices and invoices in foreign currency. The prices of the P.O. items are saved in national currency. The purchase prices are updated on the basis of the currency conversion.

### Collective order confirmation and collective invoice
If your supplier has collected several purchase orders in an order confirmation or invoice, this can be checked and accepted only if all purchase orders show the same VAT rate and the same currency.

If one of your suppliers usually issues collective invoices, it may be useful to define a special Number Manager for purchase orders sent to this supplier.

### Save purchase price
The purchase price is saved in the reference orders if it has been changed during price or invoice control and/or when booking the receipt of goods. The amended purchase prices are used to calculate the contribution margin, to evaluate the stock, or for stock P.O.s.

The corresponding option to determine the purchase price must be enabled in company data, and the purchase price tables must be maintained appropriately.

**Fig. D-91: Company data – Stock/PP/EDI tab**

## Checking the invoice
Prices can be checked in the order confirmation as well as in the supplier's invoice. Two dialogs are available for this purpose which are identical in structure and function:
- Price control
- Invoice control

Price control has already been introduced in the unit **Enter order confirmation and check prices**. Just like with price control, you can check the supplier invoice and release for payment.

> **Define cursor position**
> If you enable the menu **Options > Quick entry**, the cursor switches directly to field **Invoice total** or **OC total** when you enter the P.O. number. You can use this option if you usually enter just one P.O. number.

### How to check a received supplier's invoice
1.  Go to the menu **Documents > P.O.s > Invoice > Invoice control**.

**Fig. D-92: Invoice control**
- **A:** Invoice number
- **B:** Invoice date
- **C:** Invoice amount (net/gross)
- **D:** Purchase order number(s)
- **E:** Exchange rate

⇨ Software Reference, "Invoice control - Purchase orders" on page D-2062

2.  Enter the invoice number (A), the date (B), and the P.O. number (D) and use `<Tab>` to go to the next field.
    The purchase order is displayed in the **P.O.s** overview.
    If an invoice covers several purchase orders, you can enter the P.O. numbers one by one. The P.O.s are the added to the list. You can only combine purchase orders with the same tax rate however.
    To remove a purchase order from the overview, select it and press `<Del>`.
3.  Enter the invoice total (C).

> **Currency**
> If you are using just one currency (EUR), the entry in field **Rate (E)** must be 1.

4.  To confirm the entry, go to the menu **Start > Execute**.
    The amount will be checked and the **Items** tab appears.

**Fig. D-93: Invoice control – Items**
- **A:** Item price
- **B:** Difference across all items

You can level out price differences by changing an item price. Amended amounts will be saved in the reference documents.

5.  If no (more) differences are shown, go to **Start > Execute**.
    The data is saved, and the status of the purchase order(s) changed. Invoice control cannot be run again for this document after that.
    Purchase price calculation is corrected in the corresponding purchase orders and orders if this option has been enabled in the menu **Options > Group > Settings**.

### Additional information
- Software Reference, "Price control" on page D-2024
- Software Reference, “Invoice control - Purchase orders" on page D-2062

## Exercises
The structure of the exercises is such that every aspect of purchasing is conveyed. This means that you are going to further edit the purchase orders from the previous subject now.

### Enter receipt of goods
Enter all receipt of goods for a reference P.O. and check if the status of the order has changed.

### Enter partial receipt of goods
Enter a partial delivery for a reference P.O. and for a manual P.O.
Enter receipt of goods for a stock P.O. and for an item that includes products which are not kept on stock (partly or completely).

### Enter receipt of boxes
Enter the partial or complete receipt of boxes.

### Check deliveries for completeness
Search for purchase orders, for which items or sub-items have not been delivered yet.
Make up for the entry of the receipt of goods by making a complete booking.

### Check the invoice
Enter the invoice for the receipt of goods.
